# Reflective: Binding

#### Lauren Moy

##Judging a Book by Its Cover

This week, we discussed how the physical appearance of a book, including its exterior and binding mechanisms, relate to the content of the book. We also questioned if perhaps the appearance is completely unrelated to the content in some cases. The way a book is presented and assembled may also affect how we as readers respond to it or when/where we choose to read it. There are many options for assembling pages together, and we even learned one method of hand sewing a book binding in class. Through this exercise, we were able to experience a very tactile part of the book creation process. 

An interesting concept we touched on in the readings and in our discussion was the associations we make about a book with a sophisticated, luxurious binding. In *Baxter's Procrustes*, we saw an extreme satirical example in which the binding and exterior presentation was so impressive to its viewers that they didn't even bother to open the book and realize it was blank. While this is not a mistake that most book readers would make today, the story makes a statement about falsely judging the prestige of a book by its cover. It's true that even in a public library, we might be more inclined to pick up the book with a thick hardcover and elegant embossed letters than the tattered up paperback, but these physical features do not necessarily imply anything about the quality of its contents. Earlier in the semester, we had talked about how books used to be sold as stacks of paper, and the binding and cover would be done by the purchaser. In this case, two books could have the exact same content inside, but one may appear grand and expensive while the other looks simple and cheap. The binding is more of an indication of the owner's status or intentions. 

We also looked at instances in which the material and presentation format of the book supported its content and meaning. *Letterpress Goes for a Hike* describes a book in which prints were created with various objects found on a nature hike. In this case, the choice of materials is not meant simply for aesthetics, but it is a reflection of the author's passions and the message she wants to send to the reader. The author is genuinely interested in nature and immersing her readers in a visual hiking experience by sharing real objects from her personal journey. In "How to design an awarded letterpress printed book," the designers wanted everything about the book to convey the idea of "lightness," since the story was about a piece of lint. Everything from the font, to the page layout, to the type of paper used was chosen in a way that would appear "light." I think books like these where the exterior appearance reflects or works in conjunction with the content are more engaging for the reader. They draw connections from our visual and tactile senses to the interpretation processes spinning in our heads as we try to extract meaning from the stories. 

A third type of relationship between binding and content that we looked at was functional. We looked at the Dutch dwarsliggers, pocket-sized books that flip horizontally over the spine. These books are supposed to be for convenient reading on the train, because it only requires one hand to hold the book and turn its pages. The examples we saw in class were copies of John Green novels. The horizontal format and the size has no relation to the actual plots or themes of John Green's books, but it does create a specific scenario in which these books would be read by a specific audience. Similarly, with our DIY bound books, we could not draw any connections between the physical format and the content, since the pages were not yet filled with anything. However, DIY projects attract a specific type of people who are typically creative and enjoy making things by hand rather than using modern digital formats. While the book can hypothetically be filled with anything, it's likely that someone who went through the time of sewing their own binding would be more inclined to do something personal and unique like a scrapbook or series of drawings. 

Covers and bindings can have a variety of implications on the content, meaning, and intention of a book. However, the appearance can be misleading at first glance, so a book must be digested in its entirety to really understand what it is about. Unfortunately, the exterior is often what makes or breaks a person's decision to pick up a book and continue looking into it. Personally, after seeing some of these unconventional examples, I might still look deeper into a book even if the outside does not catch my attention. There could always be an interesting surprise inside or a clever link between material and content that I would not have caught otherwise. 

 
