# Reflective: Zines

#### Lauren Moy

##Underground Reading

This week we learned about a unique, underground form of books called the Zine. I had heard of Zines before from high school and college writing clubs, but because I was never an involved member, I didn't really understand what they were about. Through our readings and the physical samples brought into class, I got a better picture of what types of content are put into a Zine and the different motivations people may have for creating one. With our studio activity, we got to experience the tactile aspect of putting together a low-budget homemade publication, which was a very important process for people who didn't necessarily have the resources to mass produce books.

What surprised me most about the Zines was how raw and sometimes controversial the content could be. Of course, it is not uncommon for writers or artists to create shocking, provocative content, but Zines seem to be the perfect platform for all topics taboo. The "Zine Librarian's Code of Ethics" warns against impeding on the privacy of certain marginalized groups when acquiring or distributing Zines. It is odd to think that someone would put in all the time and effort to create a beautiful and unique publication but not want it to be shared or recognized. However, this idea made more sense to me when I saw real examples of Zines and saw that many of them represented more marginalized groups, such as racial minorities, LGBTQ, and women. One of the Zines I looked at in class, Deraileur, featured stories from various women, many of those stories being sexually explicit or emotionally charged. Even though it was only put together at the 90s, men at the time might still look down on women using sexual language in writing and consider it promiscuous. Even today, it is very difficult for women to speak openly about sex in front of men. If the Zines were distributed only to women who desired the same kind of liberation, then they would be protected from the judgment of mainstream society. 

The DIY aspect of putting together the Zine also seems to mesh perfectly with the underground community. I enjoyed hearing the guest speaker from NUArchives talk about teaching kids at the library how to make an 8-fold Zine, because many of them were not able to afford summer camps and their parents couldn't stay home with them. She brought the same project in for us and showed us how easy it was to make, because all you need is a sheet of paper, scissors, and something to draw or paste with. The library is a great place for low-income kids to go and find the resources that they otherwise wouldn't be able to access. I'd imagine that the Zines created by those children could  tell some very rich stories about the communities they grew up in. Although access to magazines might be an issue, as many of the more prestigious publications require a paid subscription, it can be a fun challenge to search through local newspapers and free school magazines and try to find exciting imagery and content to cut. For example, the options we had in class were mostly The New Yorker or nature and hiking magazines, but I really wanted to find images related to fashion. Every time I found a perfume ad or a picture of someone wearing a Gucci bag, it felt like a big achievement to uncover that hidden gem. In the Zine by Pagan Kennedy, I also noticed a lot of unconventional uses of magazine materials. My favorite example was the page of the personality quiz "Are You Like Susan?" from what appears to be a teen magazine. Pagan added a third column to the quiz check boxes to compare each trait to herself, making her seem like an infamous celebrity worthy of tabloid coverage. Sometimes when you have fewer resources, you are forced to be more innovative with what you have, and the results can be even more impressive than if you had just been handed whatever you need.

After looking at all the examples of Zines and even producing one in class, I realized that I have actually put together something very similar to a Zine in high school. The final requirement for all seniors in AP English was to produce a document called "The Senior Portrait", which could be a collection of various writings to represent your four years in high school. You could take excerpts from assignments written in other classes, diary or journal entries, photo collages, or new pieces written specifically for this project. For my portrait, I designed a lingerie collection, with each outfit embodying one of my many personalities. The outfit sketches would be displayed in conjunction with poems or dramatic monologues that portrayed that personality. After I handed it in, my teacher only required me to choose one page to share with the class, and then it would be put away in his closet to be shared with future seniors, mostly ones who did not know who I was. Looking back, I definitely would not want this book to be mass-produced because of all the specific names and embarrassing personal stories that were included. If I were to attempt to make a Zine again, I would definitely try to engage more in some kind of community and gather stories and input from multiple people. This can alleviate some of my concerns about embarrassing myself, because I can collaborate with a group of people who might have experienced similar things. Being part of a Zine community is a great way to remind yourself that you're not alone in any of the troubles you might be facing. 