# Reflective: Print I

#### Lauren Moy

##The Artistry of Letterpress

Our readings and activities this week revolved around letterpress printing, which is both a very technical and artistic process. The documentary on the production of the Gutenburg Bible took me on a historical journey through the intense process of printing a book with letterpress. It is amazing that even though letterpress printing involves such meticulous planning and execution, we still see a revived interest in it today, regardless of the fact that we have easier, more foolproof methods. I think the true value of learning letterpress printing as an alternative to today's modern technologies is the rewarding experience of putting in the effort to produce something with your own hands. When we face challenges, we can appreciate the results more. 

Stephen Fry's film on the letterpress gave me a whole new sense of respect for the people who worked in the print industry before the invention of digital technologies. What shocked me the most was how many different people Stephen had to consult and learn from just to get a single page of the book done. Every stage seemed so difficult, from constructing the machine, to aligning all the letters, and even making the paper. I was in awe watching them carve out the letter punches, especially when they talked about how the "e" would have to be created in eight different sizes to account for even line lengths on the page. It reminded me of how students in high school would increase the point size of their periods to change the length of their essays, but in the case of the letterpress, you would have to consider these size differences before even putting anything down on the page. This also helped me understand how critical spacing is in producing a visually appealing paragraph. "How I Came to Love the En Space" describes spaces as "directly responsible for the development of silent reading." We commonly think of a space as an absence of a letter or word, but when you see the letterpress process in which physical blocks must be inserted to create a space, you realize that the space is a crucial element in itself. When we looked at a real California job case in class, I found myself frazzled trying to decide between using an em space, en space,  4-to-em, or 3-to-em. I thought my typography professor was being uptight when he made us manually adjust the tracking of every little space in our layouts, but it was even harder to figure the spacing out without a computer.

We talked about how letterpress is making a comeback in today's DIY craze among artists and printers. In "Well Pressed," one of the main reasons for the popularity of letterpress is stated as "digital fatigue—the yearning for individualized products and a hands-on experience. Nostalgia for older ways is a recurring theme we've seen throughout the semester, as we talked about the papyrus scroll, the classic codex versus eBooks, and Old English. Letterpress is a romanticized art, and those who can print texts this way are seen as highly skilled and refined. "How Letterpress Printing Came Back from the Dead" mentions the rising popularity of letterpress on Pinterest, as people are now using the method to produce wedding invitations, greeting cards, posters, and other printed art. Today, one of the most appealing elements of letterpress is the texture created by the imprint of the letters. In class, Professor Cordell pointed out that originally, a visual indent was viewed as a sign of bad printing, but today the indents are dramatic to emphasize the fact that the design was produced through letterpress. Personally, I like trying out DIY projects for the creative release it gives me or just to experiment with something hand-made, but I don't particularly gravitate towards certain projects just because they appear more vintage or old-fashioned. I was more interested in learning about how we can combine modern graphic design with letterpress. The translation from screen to print is one of the biggest challenges for me as a designer; I always have to account for the material of a page, the way it might be folded, or how the size may affect the resolution of images. The letterpress design guide had a lot of useful tips for how to make designs most suitable for printing. You can digitally adjust colors, font styles, and spacing, but the final product will still have the tactile appeal of a letterpress imprint.  

When we began the hands-on exercise in class, I really understood what a complex process letterpress printing is. The punches and leads themselves are difficult to handle, as they might fall out if you don't hold them up carefully. Lining up the letters was counter-intuitive for me, as you have to spell out the words from right to left. I also didn't realize that I was holding the line upside down until I had finished my entire first sentence. I could barely tell the difference between the b's and d's or p's and q's. Although I struggled a lot just to put together a few lines, I appreciated how the process combined acute technical skill with intellectual challenge. When we think about the origins of letterpress, we see that it was mostly about mechanics at the time. It was simply a form of production, because not much else was available at the time. Now that we have other options available and can pursue letterpress purely for leisure and curiosity, we can indulge in it more as a form of art. Knowing that we have modern methods to fall back on, we can be more experimental with our letterpress designs and not feel so pressured to produce a perfect page.

Although I don't think I would pursue letterpress for my own personal projects, I am really grateful to be exposed to the process. I have been very immersed into the digital world, ever since I made the switch from pencil drawing and hand crafts to graphic design. However, it is refreshing once in a while to go back to my artistic roots, before I even knew how to use InDesign. This same week that we began printing, my graphic design professor was telling us how important it is to make something with your hands to gain inspiration. Physically making something can bring out a sense of passion and emotion for your creation that digital design can't quite achieve. Taking a step back to use my own hands and practice with the letterpress has definitely given me a lot more ideas and design perspectives for when I am ready to return to the digital interface. 