# Reflective: Book Alterities

#### Lauren Moy

##New Book Capabilities

We began our studies of electronic literature this week, in which we looked at one example of an online story with interactive elements and practiced creating our own story with branching pathways. Initially, I had just thought of E-lit as PDF versions of books or Kindle versions. However, I've discovered this week that there are more creative forms of E-lit that take the most advantage of the special features of the digital world to tell a story that is unique to its medium. 

The first article I read, "The Reading Brain in the Digital Age: The Science of Paper versus Screens," made some interesting comparisons between paper texts and E-lit. The article opens describing a young girl reading a paper magazine and trying to tap and zoom in on items, as if she were on a tablet. The author argues that this is a result of the younger generation being more accustomed to using technology than reading an actual book made of paper. However, even when I was a child growing up without iPads and smart phones, I sometimes felt the urge to touch things on a 2D page. I think humans have an innate desire to interact with things and have more hands-on experiences, and touch screens became a way to satisfy that desire. However, there are elements of reading a traditional codex that can't quite be replicated on a screen. There is a special tactile pleasure to physically flipping a page and hearing the sound of the paper. Some people also like to hold a 3D object in their hands, using the depth of the book as an indication of progress towards the end of the story. There is a sense of completion as you finish each page and proceed to the next, whereas on a scrolling interface, there isn't as much of a sense of where the end is. Some e-readers are trying to mimic this by showing an animation of page depth on the edges, in which you'll see the corners turning every time you swipe across a page. They'll even use an audio clip to mimic the sound of the paper rustling, but it still doesn't feel authentic. E-lit tends to find much more success when it stops attempting to mirror the codex and when it focuses on using abilities that are not possible without digital technology.

I found E-lit more effective when it was a 
dramatic departure from our traditional reading materials. Pieces that introduced interaction and animation brought an additional dimension to the story, as opposed to just transferring a story word for word from page to screen. One of the examples mentioned in the reading was *Pry* by Samantha Gorman, which allows readers to physically pry apart lines of text with their fingers to reveal hidden content underneath. This adds a visual aspect that connects with the intention of the story. We also looked at *What Football Will Look Like in the Future*, which featured animated gifs, embedded Youtube videos, and clickable navigation icons for going through the story. The most shocking part of the story was at the beginning when the letters of the article get all scrambled together and the screen starts to disintegrate. It made me feel like I was actually being transported into another universe. The music in the videos helped set the scene, and scrolling through the long sections of text mimicked the idea of how expansive the universe is. However, I didn't feel that this scrolling format and the forced sequential navigation was not very pleasant in terms of user experience. As mentioned earlier, I like to have an idea of my progress within a book, and the navigation format made this story feel endless. After a while, I felt more overwhelmed than inclined to explore and interact with the story. While E-lit can be a way to introduce a new sensory experience to the reader, authors should still consider user friendliness and how the reader will digest the overall design of the book. 

For our activity, we experimented with Twine, the platform used by the famous Netflix show Black Mirror to write the interactive episode "Bandersnatch." What I found most interesting about the interaction design on Twine was that you can give the reader as little or as much freedom as you want. With interactive stories, there is the illusion of choice, as the reader may be able to select between two different paths. However, there are ways to force the reader to cycle through a series of paths or spend a certain amount of time on a page before they can make a new choice. In "Bandersnatch," the story line has some intricate looping and recurring pathways in order to make sure the viewer watches every possible alternative. This way, the author still gets to tell their story with all the details they intended to include, but the reader feels somewhat influential. Finding the right balance between choice and plot control can be very difficult. If there are too many different combinations for the reader to try out, it might feel like there is no main point, and the reader might become bored. If the reader is forcefully driven down a specific pathway, then the ending might become too obvious, and the reader will lose interest in the interaction aspect. When creating my Twine plan, just for the sake of coding simplicity, I had one "wrong" path that would lead to the termination of the story and one "right" path that would continue to the next step. However, if I were to share this story with the public, they might not agree with my chosen "right" paths and would not feel inclined to keep restarting just to find out what the ending is. 

Our introduction to E-lit opened my eyes to the possibilities that lie beyond Kindles and PDFs. Those who criticize E-lit out of fear that technology will replace classic books would definitely understand the benefits of using digital formats if they were exposed to these interactive stories. Digital books do not have to replace hard copies. Both have their own benefits, and they can exist as two very different forms of reading. More innovative E-lit does not attempt to become a better version of the codex, but it just introduces us to a new territory of storytelling.