# Reflective: Introductions

#### Lauren Moy

## Everyone Reads

In the first week’s readings and discussions, I’ve come to realize that the term “book” can be very broadly defined. We begin with the most familiar form of a book, the codex, with pages bound between two covers. However, there are many other forms, from eBooks, to online archives, to artistic reconstructions, or even video games. The various perspectives on what a book is demonstrate that history, culture, and social environment heavily influence what we expect from the experience of reading a book. 
	

An important point highlighted by the readings and our discussion is that we are so accustomed to the definition of books by a literate culture. It is a common human trait to believe that the way your society does something is THE correct way, because you are not familiar with any other way. We insist that books must be read by deciphering some kind of alphabet, whether it be Latin or characters of another language. Literacy is so fundamental to our society, that we even say history did not exist before the invention of writing, but who is to say prior cultures do not have a history or a method for sharing stories and information? Today, literacy is a major status symbol, and those who cannot read are severely hindered from being active participants in society. They are barred from most occupations, and they can’t interpret much of the signage around them. Ken Liu’s piece, “The Bookmaking Habits of Select Species,” details the unconventional storytelling and recording methods of fictional species. While their habits and backstories come off as outlandish at first, the characters serve as metaphors for the more abstract components of a book that go beyond text on pages. For example, he describes the Allations, who read books by dragging their noses through the grooves of the surface until sound is magnified from their skulls, and each time they read they leave their own imprint on the book. This symbolizes how a reader can get deeply involved (or “nose deep”) in a book to feel the genuine voice and emotions of the author, while simultaneously adding a unique personal element to the book, as each reader will have a different experience. The Hesperoe read the preserved minds of the deceased and create a mental map on which they will predict future trajectories. This could be a representation of the extension of a book’s life after its end through imagination and curiosity. Many readers go on to create alternate endings or Fan Fictions of their favorite stories. A writer’s friends and family may have to collaborate on a posthumous work, trying to stay as close as possible to the original author’s intent. Instagram artist Kit Davey also demonstrates that there are other ways to read books besides simply looking at text. Several projects are made from traditional books, such as encyclopedias, but the materials are cut and reconstructed in a way where the text is no longer legible or relevant to the book’s purpose.  He also experiments with quirky objects like poker cards or leaves as the pages of his books. To read these books, one does not necessarily have to be literate to experience the tactile pleasure similar to that of traditional readers who enjoy physically holding a book and flipping through its pages. 
	

Continuing on the theme of the relationship between books and social status, we also observed a rift between old and new readers. We talked about a recurring pattern in history where the current generation fantasizes about the past, because they believe the older times were better, and today’s people are degenerating. In “What We Talk About When We Talk About Books,” Leah Price points out that even books at one point were viewed as a dangerous product of modern times, and “ministers warned about the dangers and the distractibility engendered by squandering time and eyesight over a novel” (Price, 12). I wanted to question whether this pessimistic nostalgia was really justified or not, as we can also find positivity in changes that come with time. “What Do Our Oldest Books Say About Us?” by Josephine Livingstone puts the four original manuscripts of poetry written in Old English on a pedestal, because they are such valuable pieces of history that hold remnants of a language we can no longer understand. I can agree that these pieces are incredible artifacts that give us a glimpse into a past we will never be able to access ourselves, but I also think this idolization of the past leads to an unreasonable contempt for the present. Students are pressured to study classic texts that often use language that is very difficult for them to relate to. While I think it is important to appreciate older work that laid the foundation for today’s books, we have to understand that people may be more stimulated by stories that are more in tune with familiar modern scenarios. Personally, I connect with a book when I share similar experiences with the characters or I learn more about a topic that interests me. Audible books and eBooks are looked down on for destroying the essence of a true book, but this interface is just more familiar to modern generations. If this format makes reading more exciting or welcoming for its intended audience, then the readers are entitled to read in the way that makes them most comfortable. As society evolves, preferences will change. The past can still be remembered and celebrated, but present innovations can cater to the changing characteristics of the current generation. 
	
My biggest concern after analyzing the different perspectives on what a book is was that we are making the act of reading less accessible by constantly debating over what qualifies as a “real book.” People have different learning styles and interests, and they shouldn’t feel inferior for the types of books they read and how they read them. Society considers those who “don’t like to read” to be less educated or less dignified, but the reality is that everyone can enjoy reading—if you don’t like to read, you just haven’t found the right book yet. Some will prefer Romantic period novels with detailed storylines, while others may prefer an abstract concept book of entirely images or unique materials. Books should be available to all, regardless of social or economic background. To do this, we have to be more open-minded about the media that stories are expressed through. 
