# Reflective: Book Alterities

#### Lauren Moy

##The Concept Book

At this point on the semester, we've finally gotten to my favorite type of book: the artist's book or concept book. These are books in which an abstract theme or concept is demonstrated in a way takes precedent over the plot or information. I enjoy these books, because to read them, you must do more than simply absorb the words on the page, but you must take the entire composition as a whole and think outside the box to interpret it. 

One of the authors we studied in our readings was Christian Bok, who I had previously written about for my Book Report. Bok is such a fascinating case to study, because his works are an extreme departure from the traditional use of the English language. In *The Xenotext*, Bok tried to write a code for DNA into his poetry, which would then be stored in a living bacterium. He called this "living poetry," because his words would be immortalized in a live organism and scientists of the future could look into the DNA to extract back the original code he had written. The concept of bringing life into a book is innovative, but immortality can be a risky idea, as it brings ethics into question. Similarly, "This Library Has New Books by Major Authors, but They Can’t Be Read Until 2114" also deals with immortalizing books, but at the cost of withholding them from the current society. Sometimes, I wonder if time is a force that we should not try to manipulate. Things happen in a specific sequence, and lives have beginnings and ends for a reason. Immortality comes at a cost, and trying to fight time could have unpredictable harmful effects in the future. It is tragic that the words and remnants of different societies may become extinct eventually, but a change of mindset, in which we focus on appreciation in the present, could make this inevitability seem less severe. 

My favorite artist book example that we explored at the NUArchives was *Red String* by Yoshikatsu Fuji. The book had a felt cover and the pages were divided into two sections, each stitched closed on the outer edge with red string. When you opened the book, the two sections were on opposite covers, and you flipped the pages by turning from the side closest to the spine. Most of the pages were filled with photographs, and the two photographs on each side of the book corresponded to each other. There were also small note slips sprinkled throughout the pages, describing the story of a divorce. When you get to the last page, there is an explanation by the author of the symbolism of the red thread. In Japanese legend, a man and a woman who are destined to be together are bound by an invisible red string. Although the author's parents are now divorced and separate, he likes to believe that there is still a red string in his family that ties him to both his parents. I particularly liked how the meaning was very ambiguous until the end of the book. I wasn't sure what the string symbolized, but I thought the intentional separation of the book into two halves on opposite sides represented the split between his parents. The message is very subtle, and the author doesn't seem overly upset or pessimistic about the divorce. His form of expression really resonated with me, because in Asian culture, we typically don't talk about any topics that may cause tension, and we avoid showing extremely emotional responses that may be viewed as a cry for help. I think Fuji did a good job of finding a subtle way to talk about an event that was probably very tough for him as a child. 

One thing I am very skeptical about when it comes to artist books and conceptual art in general is the staging of scenarios to convey a message. For example, an artist may put up a public installation in which he wants people to interact with it by writing their name. If people are genuinely coming up to it and writing their own names, then it is truly an interactive work of art. However, what if the artist were to fake this interaction by simply writing down names himself? The concept behind the piece becomes much weaker, because the interaction was staged. This is how I felt about another example at NUArchives, in which two co-authors of the book put handwritten messages in the margins and inserted folded up notes written on obscure documents, such as university letters. One of the notes was even written on a napkin. The execution of the handwritten elements seemed almost too perfect and elaborate to be genuine, which made the book less effective for me. The intention behind an artist book is very important, but for all the pieces to harmonize, the execution must match the intent.  

The materials we looked at this week intellectually challenged me and forced me to practice a more unconventional style of reading. The books we looked at involved a lot of visual, tactile, and in some cases, even auditory senses. This experience was so stimulating, because a lot of the stories I read had to be partially created in my own mind, since the authors left a lot to the imagination. As an artist, I gained a lot of insight from these examples regarding how I can make my conceptual pieces more genuine and provocative.  
