# Reading Prep: Print I

#### Lauren Moy

## Questions or Observations

1. While letterpress printing was a large step forward from scribes copying text at its time, today we recognize that it is still a very time-consuming process and there are more convenient ways to mass produce books. In the documentary, we see how many different steps, obscure forms of equipment, and professional craftsmen are needed just to print a few pages of the Bible replica. However, with the rise of the DIY obsession (as mentioned in "How Letterpress Printing Came Back from the Dead"), there is a reemerging desire to print by letterpress. It is interesting that we are now intentionally choosing to go with a more tedious process, simply because we appreciate all the effort and craftsmanship that goes into it. The fact that every step needs to be done so carefully and precisely and that mistakes can easily damage the materials forces those who engage in this craft to really pay close attention to what they are working on, resulting in a perfect product. 
2. Something I found remarkable was how carefully spacing was taken into consideration for the printing process. Gutenburg had the idea to have the "e" blocks created in multiple different widths so that he could tweak the lengths of different lines to have them end-justified. "How I Came to Love the En Space" talks about how adjusting the kerning, space between individual letters and words, can also help to even out line lengths. Today we have the luxury of using word processors or InDesign to automatically adjust these elements for us, but I can only imagine how difficult it must be to judge these manually by eye on a letterpress. 
3. Does letterpress printing actually lead to better typography design? "A Design Guide to Letterpress Printing" explains how the material properties and the nature of letterpress printing can affect how a design will appear in the final product. For example, because the letters are physically pressed into the page, double side printing can be extremely difficult, as the back side of the page will have an indented texture. The ink is also applied with uneven pressure. These parameters force the designer to think more carefully about how their design will relate to the material. When we design digitally, we often judge our idea by how it looks on screen and forget to consider how the text and images will appear with the type of paper or binding we select. 

